README.md, before:

`jaxgmg`: JAX-accelerated Goal MisGeneralisation
================================================

JAX-based environments (WIP) and RL baselines (TODO) for studying goal
misgeneralisation.

> [!NOTE]  
> `jaxgmg` is a work in progress. This is a pre-1.0 research codebase. Not
> everything is finished, tested, or documented.
> See also the [roadmap](#roadmap-towards-jaxgmg-10).

Installation
------------

Install the latest main version from GitHub:

```
pip install git+ssh://git@github.com/matomatical/jaxgmg.git
```

Install from a local clone:

```
git clone git@github.com:matomatical/jaxgmg.git
cd jaxgmg
pip install -e .
```

TODO: list on PyPI


Explore the library
-------------------

After installing run the following:

```
jaxgmg --help
```

You can try the various subcommands to see demonstrations of the library's
functionality. For example:

* To play with an interactive demonstration of the environments, try
  `jaxgmg play ENV_NAME` (see `jaxgmg play --help` for options).
* To procedurally generate mazes , try `jaxgmg mazegen LAYOUT` (see `jaxgmg
  mazegen --help` for options).

Note: Most of the demos display colour images to the terminal using ANSI
control codes, which may not work in some environments (e.g. on Windows?).


JAX-accelerated environments
----------------------------

The following environments are provided.

<table>
  <thead><tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Example</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr></thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Cheese in the Corner</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/corner13x13.gif" alt="Cheese in the Corner">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates through a maze looking for cheese (positive
        reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where the cheese always spawns in the top
        left corner, navigating to that corner becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Cheese on a Dish</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/dish13x13.gif" alt="Cheese on a Dish">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates through a maze looking for cheese (positive
        reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where the cheese always spawns on or near
        a dish, navigating to the dish becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Follow Me</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/follow13x13.gif" alt="Follow Me">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates around a maze activating beacons in a specific
        sequence (positive reward). A second mouse is also navigating the
        maze in its own sequence.
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where the second mouse follows the beacons
        in the correct sequence, following the second mouse around becomes a
        viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Keys and Chests</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/keys13x13.gif" alt="Keys and Chests">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates around a maze collecting keys (zero reward) in
        order to unlock chests (positive reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where keys are rare and chests are
        plentiful, intrinsically valuing keys and ignoring chests becomes a
        viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Lava Land</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/lava13x13.gif" alt="Lava Land">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates a forest world, avoiding lava tiles (negative
        reward) while looking for cheese (positive reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels without lava, seeking cheese without
        avoiding lava becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Monster World</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/monsters13x13.gif" alt="Monster World">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates around an arena looking for apples (positive
        reward) while dodging monsters (negative reward). The mouse picks up
        shields to defeat monsters.
        <br>
        When restricting to short episodes, avoiding monsters and ignoring
        apples becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

*Animations in this table produced with `jaxgmg play ENV_NAME`. The actions
are chosen by a human.*

Procedural level generation and environment update and rendering are fully
JAX-accelerable. The speed of level generation depends on the generator
configuration and whether we need to cache level solutions, as explored in
the next sections. However, the speed of the environment's *step* method
depends only on the size of the level and the number of entities (such as
keys or chests) and not the procedurally generated layout. The following
tables report speeds from rollouts of a random policy (steps per second,
including rendering a Boolean or RGB observation) for each environment with
different level sizes and different hardware.

On a M2 Macbook Air (without using Metal):

| Environment          | 13x13 bool | 25x25 bool | 13x13 rgb | 25x25 rgb |
| -------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------- | --------- |
| Cheese in the Corner | 3.20M      |  968K      | 50.2K     | 14.0K     |
| Cheese on a Dish     | 6.90M      | 2.78M      | 47.3K     | 13.3K     |
| Follow Me            | 2.10M      |  620K      | 44.3K     | 12.4K     |
| Keys and Chests      | 1.77M      |  580K      | 47.2K     | 13.1K     |
| Lava Land            | 7.29M      | 2.94M      | 46.7K     | 13.4K     |
| Monster World        |  597K      |  315K      | 46.7K     | 13.9K     |

TODO: Test on a GPU.

*Rates collected with `jaxgmg speedtest envstep-ENVIRONMENT`, batch size 32,
128 steps per trial, showing the mean (and standard deviation in parentheses)
as calculated after discarding the first trial since that includes the
compilation step.*

Procedural level generation
---------------------------

Each environment supports a wide distribution of 'levels', and the library
includes easily configurable tools for procedural level generation.

At the core of these level generators is a suite of configurable procedural
maze generation methods, some outputs of which are depicted in the below
mural. There are currently five maze generation methods, any of which can be
paired with any of the above environment.

* **Tree mazes:** acyclic mazes based on spanning trees of a grid
  graph, generated using Kruskal's random spanning tree algorithm
    (Mural row 1).
* **Edge mazes:** a grid maze where each edge is independently determined to
  be traversable with configurable probability
    (Mural rows 2 and 3, edge probabilities 75% and 85% respectively).
* **Block mazes:** wherein each cell is determined to have a block/wall
  independently with configurable probability
    (Mural row 4, block probability 25%).
* **Noise mazes:** based on thresholding Perlin noise (or associated fractal
  noise) with a gradient grid of configurable cell size
    (Rows 5, 6, and 7, respectively with gradient cell size 2, 3, and 8; row
    8 depicts fractal noise with three octaves which just means we
    superimposed Perlin noise with cell sizes 4 and 2 onto the base noise
    with cell size 8).
* **Open mazes:** an empty maze with no obstacles and no procedural variation
    (row 8).
  This case is trivial, nevertheless it is useful in some cases such as
  testing RL algorithms and as a starting point for RL algorithms that build
  their own maze layouts.

<p align="center">
  <img src="img/mazegen.png" alt="Mural depicting maze generation methods.">
</p>

*Mural produced with `jaxgmg mazegen mural --num_cols=16`*

Given a generator configuration and a target maze size, these maze generation
algorithms are fully acceleratable with JAX.
The following tables report rates of maze generation (mazes per second) for
different configurations and hardware.

On a M2 Macbook Air (without using Metal):

| Generator                    | 13x13 mazes  | 25x25 mazes  | 49x49 mazes  |
| ---------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| Tree                         |  119K (430)  | 22.0K (41)   | 4.56K (16)   |
| Tree (alt. Kruskal impl.)    | 90.4K (300)  | 13.6K (25)   | 860 (1.5)    |
| Edges                        | 1.55M (17K)  | 389K (13K)   | 108K (4.7K)  |
| Blocks                       |  963K (12K)  | 221K (11K)   | 106K (1.2K)  |
| Noise (2x2 cells)            |  651K (5.0K) | 141K (970)   | 37.4K (130)  |
| Noise (8x8 cells)            | 1.08M (10K)  | 366K (4.6K)  | 82.9K (920)  |
| Noise (8x8 cells, 3 octaves) |  244K (1.5K) |  78K (160)   | 19.9K (61)   |
| Open                         | 13.8M (592K) | 7.22M (340K) | 2.10M (720K) |

TODO: test on a GPU.

*Rates collected with `jaxgmg speedtest mazegen-METHOD`, batch size 32, 512
iterations per trial, mean (and standard deviation) calculated after
discarding the first trial since that includes the compilation step.*


Maze solving
------------

Some environments (Follow Me, Monster World) don't just require a maze
layout, they have transition dynamics ('NPCs') that depend on optimal
navigation within the arbitrary generated layout.
This library's solution is to compute all-pairs shortest path information
during level generation and cache this navigation information as part of the
level struct for quick use during rollouts.
Caching the 'solution' to a maze layout at level generation time should be
faster overall than running a shortest path algorithm during each step, but
we still want level generation to be accelerated, so we need a
JAX-accelerated all-pairs shortest path algorithm.

The module `jaxgmg.procgen.maze_solving` provides a JAX-accelerated all-pairs
shortest path algorithm, with methods returning a tensor that encodes the
distance or optimal direction to move from any source node to any destination
node. The following is a visualisation of the result for a tree maze (the
algorithms work for arbitrary maze layouts).

<p align="center">
  <img src="img/mazesoln.png" alt="Visualisation of a maze solution.">
</p>

**How to read:**
  The position in the 'macromaze' represents the source and the position in
  the 'micromaze' (the small version of the maze at that position) represents
  the destination.
The colour indicates the shortest path distance (in the left maze) or the
  optimal direction (in the right maze) to reach the destination position
  from the source position.
For the shortest path distances (left) the colour indicates the distance:
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/wall/440154?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/0/3b528b?label=), ...,
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/15/21918c?label=), ...,
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/30/fde725?label=).
For the optimal directions (right) the colour indicates the direction:
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/up/29366f?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/left/257179?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/down/38b764?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/right/a7f070?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/stay/ffcd75?label=).

*Visualisation generated with `jaxgmg mazesoln distance-direction`.*

The maze solution algorithms are fully accelerated with JAX. The following
tables report rates of maze solving (mazes per second) for different
configurations and hardware.

Note: the time taken to generate the mazes is not included, and not all
generators are tested because the solution methods run similar operations
independent of the maze contents.

On a M2 Macbook Air (without using Metal):

| Type of solution      | Gen.  | 13x13 mazes | 25x25 mazes | 49x49 mazes |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Distance              | Tree  | 1.35K (21)  | TODO        | TODO        |
| Distance              | Edges | 1.34K (17)  |             |             |
| Directional distances | Edges | 1.16K (38)  |             |             |
| Direction (uldr)      | Edges | 1.06K (7.4) |             |             |
| Direction (uldr+stay) | Edges | 1.01K (3.1) |             |             |

TODO: test on a GPU.

*Rates collected with `jaxgmg speedtest mazesoln-METHOD`, batch size 32,
128 iterations per trial, mean (and standard deviation) calculated after
discarding the first trial since that includes the compilation step.*

Level solving
-------------

Some environments also support optimal or heuristic policies (using these
same maze solving methods as a foundation).

TODO: Document.


RL baselines
------------

TODO: implement baselines.


Roadmap: Towards jaxgmg 1.0
---------------------------

Procedural generation methods:

* [x] Kruskal's algorithm
* [x] Random block mazes
* [x] Perlin noise and fractal noise

Environments (JAX accelerated):

* [x] Cheese in the corner
* [x] Keys and chests
* [x] Monster world
* [x] Cheese on a dish
* [x] Lava land
* [x] Follow the leader (simplified 'cultural transmission')
* [ ] Forest recovery

Environment features:

* [x] Boolean rendering
* [x] 8x8 RGB rendering
* [ ] Rendering in other resolutions
* [ ] Partially observable versions
* [ ] Gymnax API wrappers and registration

RL baselines:

* [ ] Train PPO agents in the above environments (symbolic)
* [ ] Train PPO agents in the above environments (small pixels)
* [ ] Qualitative and quantitative demonstration of goal misgeneralisation

Packaging:

* [x] Create this repository
* [x] Format project as an installable Python package
* [x] CLI easily demonstrating core features
* [x] Animation/images of core environments, procedural generation methods
* [x] Speedtests of generation methods, environments, (TODO: baselines)
* [ ] Document speedtests and RL experiments in a report
* [ ] Release jaxgmg v1 on arXiv and PyPI...!


Stretch roadmap: Towards jaxgmg 2.0
-----------------------------------

More procedural generation methods (see notes
[here](https://christianjmills.com/posts/procedural-map-generation-techniques-notes/)):
  
* [ ] Simple room placement?
* [ ] BSP?
* [ ] Tunnellers?
* [ ] Cellular automata?
* [ ] Drunkard's walk?


More environments:

* [ ] Coin at the end (simplified 'coinrun'-style platformer)
* [ ] Survivor ('crafter'-style mining/farming grid world)
* [ ] Dungeon (a simple roguelike)
* [ ] More games inspired by Procgen


More environment features:

* [ ] Procgen-style variable-size mazes
* [ ] Procgen-style sprite and background diversity


More RL baselines:

* [ ] Train PPO agents in the stretch environments (symbolic and pixels)
* [ ] Train DQN agents in all environments (symbolic and pixels)

Commit message:

copy over matt run script and get it running

README.md, after:

`jaxgmg`: JAX-accelerated Goal MisGeneralisation
================================================

JAX-based environments (WIP) and RL baselines (TODO) for studying goal
misgeneralisation.

> [!NOTE]  
> `jaxgmg` is a work in progress. This is a pre-1.0 research codebase. Not
> everything is finished, tested, or documented.
> See also the [roadmap](#roadmap-towards-jaxgmg-10).

Installation
------------

Install the latest main version from GitHub:

```
pip install git+ssh://git@github.com/matomatical/jaxgmg.git
```

Install from a local clone:

```
git clone git@github.com:matomatical/jaxgmg.git
cd jaxgmg
pip install -e .
```

TODO: list on PyPI


Explore the library
-------------------

After installing run the following:

```
jaxgmg --help
```

You can try the various subcommands to see demonstrations of the library's
functionality. For example:

* To play with an interactive demonstration of the environments, try
  `jaxgmg play ENV_NAME` (see `jaxgmg play --help` for options).
* To procedurally generate mazes , try `jaxgmg mazegen LAYOUT` (see `jaxgmg
  mazegen --help` for options).

Note: Most of the demos display colour images to the terminal using ANSI
control codes, which may not work in some environments (e.g. on Windows?).

Run an RL experiment
--------------------

WORK IN PROGRESS / SUBJECT TO CHANGE

Currently, the baselines only run on `baselines` branch. If you installed the
library while on a different branch, you will need to `pip install -e .`
again because there are more dependencies.

Then to see the API for running an experiment, run:

```
jaxgmg train --help
```

Include the flag --wandb-log to log results to wandb, etc.


JAX-accelerated environments
----------------------------

The following environments are provided.

<table>
  <thead><tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Example</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr></thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Cheese in the Corner</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/corner13x13.gif" alt="Cheese in the Corner">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates through a maze looking for cheese (positive
        reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where the cheese always spawns in the top
        left corner, navigating to that corner becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Cheese on a Dish</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/dish13x13.gif" alt="Cheese on a Dish">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates through a maze looking for cheese (positive
        reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where the cheese always spawns on or near
        a dish, navigating to the dish becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Follow Me</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/follow13x13.gif" alt="Follow Me">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates around a maze activating beacons in a specific
        sequence (positive reward). A second mouse is also navigating the
        maze in its own sequence.
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where the second mouse follows the beacons
        in the correct sequence, following the second mouse around becomes a
        viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Keys and Chests</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/keys13x13.gif" alt="Keys and Chests">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates around a maze collecting keys (zero reward) in
        order to unlock chests (positive reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels where keys are rare and chests are
        plentiful, intrinsically valuing keys and ignoring chests becomes a
        viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Lava Land</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/lava13x13.gif" alt="Lava Land">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates a forest world, avoiding lava tiles (negative
        reward) while looking for cheese (positive reward).
        <br>
        When restricting to levels without lava, seeking cheese without
        avoiding lava becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Monster World</td>
      <td>
        <img src="img/monsters13x13.gif" alt="Monster World">
      </td>
      <td>
        A mouse navigates around an arena looking for apples (positive
        reward) while dodging monsters (negative reward). The mouse picks up
        shields to defeat monsters.
        <br>
        When restricting to short episodes, avoiding monsters and ignoring
        apples becomes a viable proxy.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

*Animations in this table produced with `jaxgmg play ENV_NAME`. The actions
are chosen by a human.*

Procedural level generation and environment update and rendering are fully
JAX-accelerable. The speed of level generation depends on the generator
configuration and whether we need to cache level solutions, as explored in
the next sections. However, the speed of the environment's *step* method
depends only on the size of the level and the number of entities (such as
keys or chests) and not the procedurally generated layout. The following
tables report speeds from rollouts of a random policy (steps per second,
including rendering a Boolean or RGB observation) for each environment with
different level sizes and different hardware.

On a M2 Macbook Air (without using Metal):

| Environment          | 13x13 bool | 25x25 bool | 13x13 rgb | 25x25 rgb |
| -------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------- | --------- |
| Cheese in the Corner | 3.20M      |  968K      | 50.2K     | 14.0K     |
| Cheese on a Dish     | 6.90M      | 2.78M      | 47.3K     | 13.3K     |
| Follow Me            | 2.10M      |  620K      | 44.3K     | 12.4K     |
| Keys and Chests      | 1.77M      |  580K      | 47.2K     | 13.1K     |
| Lava Land            | 7.29M      | 2.94M      | 46.7K     | 13.4K     |
| Monster World        |  597K      |  315K      | 46.7K     | 13.9K     |

TODO: Test on a GPU.

*Rates collected with `jaxgmg speedtest envstep-ENVIRONMENT`, batch size 32,
128 steps per trial, showing the mean (and standard deviation in parentheses)
as calculated after discarding the first trial since that includes the
compilation step.*

Procedural level generation
---------------------------

Each environment supports a wide distribution of 'levels', and the library
includes easily configurable tools for procedural level generation.

At the core of these level generators is a suite of configurable procedural
maze generation methods, some outputs of which are depicted in the below
mural. There are currently five maze generation methods, any of which can be
paired with any of the above environment.

* **Tree mazes:** acyclic mazes based on spanning trees of a grid
  graph, generated using Kruskal's random spanning tree algorithm
    (Mural row 1).
* **Edge mazes:** a grid maze where each edge is independently determined to
  be traversable with configurable probability
    (Mural rows 2 and 3, edge probabilities 75% and 85% respectively).
* **Block mazes:** wherein each cell is determined to have a block/wall
  independently with configurable probability
    (Mural row 4, block probability 25%).
* **Noise mazes:** based on thresholding Perlin noise (or associated fractal
  noise) with a gradient grid of configurable cell size
    (Rows 5, 6, and 7, respectively with gradient cell size 2, 3, and 8; row
    8 depicts fractal noise with three octaves which just means we
    superimposed Perlin noise with cell sizes 4 and 2 onto the base noise
    with cell size 8).
* **Open mazes:** an empty maze with no obstacles and no procedural variation
    (row 8).
  This case is trivial, nevertheless it is useful in some cases such as
  testing RL algorithms and as a starting point for RL algorithms that build
  their own maze layouts.

<p align="center">
  <img src="img/mazegen.png" alt="Mural depicting maze generation methods.">
</p>

*Mural produced with `jaxgmg mazegen mural --num_cols=16`*

Given a generator configuration and a target maze size, these maze generation
algorithms are fully acceleratable with JAX.
The following tables report rates of maze generation (mazes per second) for
different configurations and hardware.

On a M2 Macbook Air (without using Metal):

| Generator                    | 13x13 mazes  | 25x25 mazes  | 49x49 mazes  |
| ---------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| Tree                         |  119K (430)  | 22.0K (41)   | 4.56K (16)   |
| Tree (alt. Kruskal impl.)    | 90.4K (300)  | 13.6K (25)   | 860 (1.5)    |
| Edges                        | 1.55M (17K)  | 389K (13K)   | 108K (4.7K)  |
| Blocks                       |  963K (12K)  | 221K (11K)   | 106K (1.2K)  |
| Noise (2x2 cells)            |  651K (5.0K) | 141K (970)   | 37.4K (130)  |
| Noise (8x8 cells)            | 1.08M (10K)  | 366K (4.6K)  | 82.9K (920)  |
| Noise (8x8 cells, 3 octaves) |  244K (1.5K) |  78K (160)   | 19.9K (61)   |
| Open                         | 13.8M (592K) | 7.22M (340K) | 2.10M (720K) |

TODO: test on a GPU.

*Rates collected with `jaxgmg speedtest mazegen-METHOD`, batch size 32, 512
iterations per trial, mean (and standard deviation) calculated after
discarding the first trial since that includes the compilation step.*


Maze solving
------------

Some environments (Follow Me, Monster World) don't just require a maze
layout, they have transition dynamics ('NPCs') that depend on optimal
navigation within the arbitrary generated layout.
This library's solution is to compute all-pairs shortest path information
during level generation and cache this navigation information as part of the
level struct for quick use during rollouts.
Caching the 'solution' to a maze layout at level generation time should be
faster overall than running a shortest path algorithm during each step, but
we still want level generation to be accelerated, so we need a
JAX-accelerated all-pairs shortest path algorithm.

The module `jaxgmg.procgen.maze_solving` provides a JAX-accelerated all-pairs
shortest path algorithm, with methods returning a tensor that encodes the
distance or optimal direction to move from any source node to any destination
node. The following is a visualisation of the result for a tree maze (the
algorithms work for arbitrary maze layouts).

<p align="center">
  <img src="img/mazesoln.png" alt="Visualisation of a maze solution.">
</p>

**How to read:**
  The position in the 'macromaze' represents the source and the position in
  the 'micromaze' (the small version of the maze at that position) represents
  the destination.
The colour indicates the shortest path distance (in the left maze) or the
  optimal direction (in the right maze) to reach the destination position
  from the source position.
For the shortest path distances (left) the colour indicates the distance:
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/wall/440154?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/0/3b528b?label=), ...,
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/15/21918c?label=), ...,
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/30/fde725?label=).
For the optimal directions (right) the colour indicates the direction:
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/up/29366f?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/left/257179?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/down/38b764?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/right/a7f070?label=),
  ![](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/color/stay/ffcd75?label=).

*Visualisation generated with `jaxgmg mazesoln distance-direction`.*

The maze solution algorithms are fully accelerated with JAX. The following
tables report rates of maze solving (mazes per second) for different
configurations and hardware.

Note: the time taken to generate the mazes is not included, and not all
generators are tested because the solution methods run similar operations
independent of the maze contents.

On a M2 Macbook Air (without using Metal):

| Type of solution      | Gen.  | 13x13 mazes | 25x25 mazes | 49x49 mazes |
| --------------------- | ----- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Distance              | Tree  | 1.35K (21)  | TODO        | TODO        |
| Distance              | Edges | 1.34K (17)  |             |             |
| Directional distances | Edges | 1.16K (38)  |             |             |
| Direction (uldr)      | Edges | 1.06K (7.4) |             |             |
| Direction (uldr+stay) | Edges | 1.01K (3.1) |             |             |

TODO: test on a GPU.

*Rates collected with `jaxgmg speedtest mazesoln-METHOD`, batch size 32,
128 iterations per trial, mean (and standard deviation) calculated after
discarding the first trial since that includes the compilation step.*

Level solving
-------------

Some environments also support optimal or heuristic policies (using these
same maze solving methods as a foundation).

TODO: Document.


RL baselines
------------

TODO: implement baselines.


Roadmap: Towards jaxgmg 1.0
---------------------------

Procedural generation methods:

* [x] Kruskal's algorithm
* [x] Random block mazes
* [x] Perlin noise and fractal noise

Environments (JAX accelerated):

* [x] Cheese in the corner
* [x] Keys and chests
* [x] Monster world
* [x] Cheese on a dish
* [x] Lava land
* [x] Follow the leader (simplified 'cultural transmission')
* [ ] Forest recovery

Environment features:

* [x] Boolean rendering
* [x] 8x8 RGB rendering
* [ ] Rendering in other resolutions
* [ ] Partially observable versions
* [ ] Gymnax API wrappers and registration

RL baselines:

* [ ] Train PPO agents in the above environments (symbolic)
* [ ] Train PPO agents in the above environments (small pixels)
* [ ] Qualitative and quantitative demonstration of goal misgeneralisation

Packaging:

* [x] Create this repository
* [x] Format project as an installable Python package
* [x] CLI easily demonstrating core features
* [x] Animation/images of core environments, procedural generation methods
* [x] Speedtests of generation methods, environments, (TODO: baselines)
* [ ] Document speedtests and RL experiments in a report
* [ ] Release jaxgmg v1 on arXiv and PyPI...!


Stretch roadmap: Towards jaxgmg 2.0
-----------------------------------

More procedural generation methods (see notes
[here](https://christianjmills.com/posts/procedural-map-generation-techniques-notes/)):
  
* [ ] Simple room placement?
* [ ] BSP?
* [ ] Tunnellers?
* [ ] Cellular automata?
* [ ] Drunkard's walk?


More environments:

* [ ] Coin at the end (simplified 'coinrun'-style platformer)
* [ ] Survivor ('crafter'-style mining/farming grid world)
* [ ] Dungeon (a simple roguelike)
* [ ] More games inspired by Procgen


More environment features:

* [ ] Procgen-style variable-size mazes
* [ ] Procgen-style sprite and background diversity


More RL baselines:

* [ ] Train PPO agents in the stretch environments (symbolic and pixels)
* [ ] Train DQN agents in all environments (symbolic and pixels)
